devel/README.md, before:

# raspberry-streaming

## Current development - steps taken so far:

- ### install packages:
    ```
    sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
    sudo apt install -y nginx ffmpeg python3 python3-pip
    ```

- ### set up directories:
    ```
    sudo mkdir -p /var/www/pi_streamer/media/
    sudo chown -R "$(id -u):$(id -g)" /var/www/pi_streamer
    ```

- ### configure nginx:
    - copy nginx config file to `/etc/nginx/sites-available/pi_streamer`
    - remove `default` config file found in `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/`
    - ```
      sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/pi_streamer /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
      sudo nginx -t && sudo systemctl reload nginx
      ```
    - new config also sets up endpoints for backend
    - always execute the following after changing config of nginx: `sudo nginx -t && sudo systemctl reload nginx`

- ### set up backend:
    - ```
      mkdir ~/pi_streamer_backend
      ```
    - copy `app.py` and `requirements.txt` into that dir
    - ```
      python3 -m venv venv && source venv/bin/activate && pip install -r requirements.txt
      ```
    - finally, run the app as such: `python app.py`
    - uploads are saved to /var/www/pi_streamer/media/original/<id>.ext
    - a DB row is created with status queued
    - a background worker runs ffmpeg to create HLS in /var/www/pi_streamer/media/hls/<id>/playlist.m3u8
    - nginx serves /hls/<id>/playlist.m3u8 and segments to clients
    - the /api/status/<id> endpoint shows progress (queued -> processing -> ready/failed)

- ### frontend/landing page:
    - copy all relevant html/css/js files to `/var/www/pi_streamer/media/`
    - #### index.html + index.js
        - Main app page where users interact with Pi Streamer
        - upload new videos to the Raspberry Pi
        - show a list of uploaded videos
        - upload logic: use fetch/FormData to send files to /api/upload.
        Updates the progress bar during upload
        - List rendering: Calls /api/list to fetch all uploaded videos, then
        dynamically creates <div> items for each one
        - Open in player: A button links to /player.html?id=<video-id> so the
        user can open that video in a dedicated player
    - #### player.html + player.js
        - Standalone player page
        - Button to go “Back to Library”
        - Read the `?id=<video-id>` query parameter from the URL
        - Construct the HLS URL `/hls/<id>/playlist.m3u8`
        - Create a <video> element
        - If the browser supports HLS natively (Safari), set `video.src`
        - Otherwise use hls.js to attach the stream

Commit message:

Document steps needed to create certificates
The certificates are created using the tool mkcert which is purposed
only for development and not for actual production. Nevertheless, it is
really easy to set up and the steps are properly followed. This remains
to be tested across different devices. When using localhost, it is
correct.

devel/README.md, after:

# raspberry-streaming

## Current development - steps taken so far:

- ### install packages:
    ```
    sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
    sudo apt install -y nginx ffmpeg python3 python3-pip
    ```

- ### set up directories:
    ```
    sudo mkdir -p /var/www/pi_streamer/media/
    sudo chown -R "$(id -u):$(id -g)" /var/www/pi_streamer
    ```
- ### set up certificates:
    - install `mkcert`
    - ensure `certutil` is working by also installing `libnss3-tools`
    - ```
      mkcert -install
      mkcert local.pi-streamer.com localhost 127.0.0.1 ::1
      ```
    - rename the two `.pem` files as `local.pi-streamer.com.pem` and 
      `local.pi-streamer.com-key.pem`
    - add `127.0.0.1 local.pi-streamer.com` to /etc/hosts in order to register
      the domain name

- ### configure nginx:
    - copy nginx config file to `/etc/nginx/sites-available/pi_streamer`
    - remove `default` config file found in `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/`
    - ```
      sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/pi_streamer /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
      sudo nginx -t && sudo systemctl reload nginx
      ```
    - new config also sets up endpoints for backend
    - new config also ensures connection is https
    - always execute the following after changing config of nginx: `sudo nginx -t && sudo systemctl reload nginx`

- ### set up backend:
    - ```
      mkdir ~/pi_streamer_backend
      ```
    - copy `app.py` and `requirements.txt` into that dir
    - ```
      python3 -m venv venv && source venv/bin/activate && pip install -r requirements.txt
      ```
    - finally, run the app as such: `python app.py`
    - uploads are saved to /var/www/pi_streamer/media/original/<id>.ext
    - a DB row is created with status queued
    - a background worker runs ffmpeg to create HLS in /var/www/pi_streamer/media/hls/<id>/playlist.m3u8
    - nginx serves /hls/<id>/playlist.m3u8 and segments to clients
    - the /api/status/<id> endpoint shows progress (queued -> processing -> ready/failed)

- ### frontend/landing page:
    - copy all relevant html/css/js files to `/var/www/pi_streamer/media/`
    - #### index.html + index.js
        - Main app page where users interact with Pi Streamer
        - upload new videos to the Raspberry Pi
        - show a list of uploaded videos
        - upload logic: use fetch/FormData to send files to /api/upload.
        Updates the progress bar during upload
        - List rendering: Calls /api/list to fetch all uploaded videos, then
        dynamically creates <div> items for each one
        - Open in player: A button links to /player.html?id=<video-id> so the
        user can open that video in a dedicated player
    - #### player.html + player.js
        - Standalone player page
        - Button to go “Back to Library”
        - Read the `?id=<video-id>` query parameter from the URL
        - Construct the HLS URL `/hls/<id>/playlist.m3u8`
        - Create a <video> element
        - If the browser supports HLS natively (Safari), set `video.src`
        - Otherwise use hls.js to attach the stream
